okay so um so this time we'll talk about
recurrent neural networks I think a lot
of this will be if people are already
familiar with recurrent enrollment
networks will be relatively easy but you
know it's something that's very
important for neural networks for NLP so
I will go and we'll go through it I'll
try to go through the easy parts
relatively quickly so if there are any
questions feel free to ask and then
maybe we can spend some more time on a
berating or I got a question about the
stack rnns on Piazza and I can talk a
little bit more about that as well um
okay so let's go with the first with the
first one so in NLP we have lots of
sequential data that we would like to
handle and you know this could be words
and sentences or characters and words or
sentences and discourse etc and all of
these have kind of long-distance
dependencies in them in some way or
another and I you know there's tons of
these dependencies that that's been over
long distances but just to give them a
few agreement and number or gender etc
so this is an example that I also used
in my my machine translation class but
if you have he does not have very much
confidence in himself it should be
himself and it's she does not have very
much confidence in herself so this is an
example of long distance agreement in
gender this doesn't happen very much in
English but it happens a whole lot in a
lot of other languages in the world
where you where you have to do this so
if you know Russian or another language
like that this is very important
another example is selectional
preference this happens in basically
every language in the world so this is
an example where we have a word that's
pronounced the same but is spelled two
different ways so
the rain has lasted as long as the life
of the Queen while the rain has lasted
as long as the life of the clouds so you
couldn't create an accurate speech
recognition system that distinguish
between these because they're pronounced
the same in American English anyway or
my version of American English and
unless you looked at the very last word
here and you know there's lots of lots
of examples of this as well some other
ones you can come up with kind of
arbitrarily complicated cases so what is
the reference of it this is an example
of an afro resolution or Co reference
resolution so the trophy would not fit
in the brown suitcase because it was too
big so what is it trophy very good so
the trophy would not fit in the brown
suitcase because it was too small so now
what's it suitcase okay
does anyone know what this is but this
and there's a name a name for this yeah
very good Winograd schema so this is a
famous thing that is trying to come up
with difficult common-sense reasoning
things and you know they're based on
language but they also require you to
know that basically the trophy is going
inside the suitcase so if it's too big
then you know the thing that's going
inside is the problem if it's too small
than the thing that's going into this
problems you can take a look here I've
not actually downloaded this data and
looked at it but I've seen a few
examples and it looks pretty interesting
it might be might be fun to play with if
you're if you want um
so one way to solve these kind of long
distance dependencies in a generalized
way is recurrent neural networks so
basically you can think of them as tools
to remember information over arbitrarily
long time spans and the feed-forward
neural network looks like this we we do
something like look up a word vector we
do some transform of it and then we make
prediction so for example in our in our
feed-forward language model our context
would be the past two or three words and
then we run it through a neural network
layer or something and recurrent neural
networks look like this so basically
what you do is instead of just taking
the context you take the the previous
prediction or the previous hidden state
as well and unrolling them in time looks
like this so um one important thing to
notice here is that this graph looks
like it has a cycle in it and when you
have a cycle you can't do back
propagation and the reason why you can't
do back propagation or well at least you
can't do it in the normal way is because
basically back propagation is a dynamic
programming algorithm that assumes that
things are in topological order to do it
properly if you have a cycle there's no
topological order so so you couldn't do
this but fortunately if you think about
it over a whole sentence basically you
have your vectors that you looked up
here you take the hidden state at time 0
you do it transform with R and then get
the hidden state at time 1 make a
prediction do the transform time to make
your prediction time 3 prediction time
for prediction and if you get this far
now suddenly there's no cycles in the
graph anymore right so it's just a
normal it's just a normal directed
acyclic graph and we can train it like
we can train any other so how do we
train we have maybe our predictions 1 2
3 4 if we have labels 1 2 3 4 like like
part of speech tags or whatever then
from these labels we can calculate a
loss 1 loss 2 plus 3 plus 4 and then
basically add them all together
and now we have our we have our sum
which is our final our final loss
function and then we can do back
propagation with respect to this so this
is just a graph where we calculate a
loss function and do normal back
propagation we can think of it as a big
feed-forward neural network basically
where it's feeding forward from the end
of the sentence to the beginning of the
sentence suspended the sentence and then
from all the predictions into the last
one to consider any questions so far
okay so yeah the unrolled graph is a
well-formed
directed acyclic graph we can run back
prop so we take our total US and we run
back prop back propagation like this and
pass stuff all the way back parameters
are so one important thing is that the
parameters are tied across time and the
derivatives are aggregated across all
the time steps and this is called back
propagation through time just to give a
example of what we mean by this
basically the you can see that I have
multiple RNN steps here but the
parameters for all of these are NN steps
are the same essentially because we're
doing the same transform at every time
step which means that if we do back prop
basically the the gradients of these
parameters will be the sum of the
gradients that we get from all of our
predictions so that's good the reason
why it's called back propagation through
time is basically we might have our loss
from over here in time step 4 and it
kind of goes back through time step four
two times to have three good things a
step two time step 1 etc so it's going
back through time ok so that's the
basics of our n ends I think it's review
for a lot of a lot of people but are
there any questions ok Oh continued so
what can our n ends do um there was kind
of a
there were three things in the in the
materials I actually prefer to think of
them as two is a classification of two
things so one thing you can do is
represent the sentence and use that
representation to make a prediction or
it can represent a context within a
sentence so it will read the context up
into that point and use it to summarize
the symptom the you know the context of
that particular time step in the reading
materials there was also a distinction
between an acceptor and an encoder I
think basically these are kind of two
instances of the first of the first one
so both of them are calculating a
representation of a sentence and then
how they use them downstream either to
make a single prediction about the
sentence yes or no or for something more
complicated is basically the distinction
between these two so in my mind
basically number one and number two are
the main the main distinctions of
distance so let's say we want to
represent the sentence we get I hate
this movie and then we can make a
prediction about the sentence here maybe
this is our sentiment prediction and
this could be done for you know sentence
classification conditions generation so
like translation or dialogue response
generation which we'll talk about later
also retrieval which I'll talk about in
the next class and if we want to
represent contexts we can you know
predict particular labels from each of
these and we can do that for tagging
language modeling calculating
representations for parsing
so if we're talking about language
modeling language modeling is basically
a tagging task where we want to tag the
next word in the sentence and the way we
can do this is by basically taking the
initial hidden state and inputting the
beginning of sentence symbol calculating
a representation and then predicting the
word I then we input the previous word
do this predict the word hate and do
this all the way to the end until we get
the end of sentence symbol so this is
the same as our feed-forward Network
except the big difference between this
and our feed-forward network is now that
we have this kind of recursive process
so this is this is one example are there
any questions so one one thing maybe I
should mention now I'm actually going to
talk about this more in detail later but
um the problems that we encounter here
in the representing sentences and here
in the representing contexts are
actually very different and the
representing sentences in the
representing sentences tasks we only
have one prediction at the very end of
the sentence and this actually makes
training rnns very hard the reason why
it makes training rnns very hard is
basically we're passing information
along lots of time steps and we need to
remember this information all the way
through the sentence well for
representing contexts it's actually not
as hard at all because we get feedback
from the label immediately after
consuming a word so if you hear about
things like our events being hard to
train it's mainly in the first part
although in the second part it's it can
be true visible and I'll talk about this
in a little bit
okay so any questions clarification okay
so um the next thing I will talk about
are bi-directional RNs so bi-directional
RNs are a simple extension to this
basically the idea is that you want to
do it in both directions so you read
from the end of the sentence or from the
beginning of the sentence all the way to
the end of the sentence and the end of
the sentence all the way to the
beginning of the sentence in that based
on this you can concatenate these two
representations and make a prediction of
something like a make a part of speech
tag like this um so the good thing about
this is basically what you're doing is
you're getting all the information on
the left from your forward are and then
the right from your backward are and
then and then you're using this to make
a prediction about the tag so you
basically you're considering everything
else in the in the sentence when you're
making a prediction um there basically
I'm going to talk about LST ms in a
little bit but basically a
bi-directional LST M for some sort of
sequence labeling or something is an
extremely strong baseline it's extremely
easy to make and works extremely well so
this is something that you definitely
want to have in your arsenal if you're
if you're trying to do any sort of
sequence labeling or something like this
and they're not they're not too
difficult to implement so just a very
quick clarification can we use this for
language modeling anybody
anybody anybody disagree anybody
disagree and have a reason why yeah
right exactly yeah so um so the answer
is no and the reason why is because
language modeling is calculating the
conditional probabilities of all of the
words in the sentence this and we do
this by by decomposing we calculate the
probability of the first where and then
we calculate the probability of the
second word given the first word etc um
if we use this for language modeling
then we will basically be conditioning
on all the words when we predict the
second word and that's not allowed in
language modeling so if you're doing
language modeling you have to do left to
right if you're doing something like
machine translation also you need to
generate the words in a particular order
so you have to go left to right other
applications like tagging where you're
getting a predict tags based on all the
words in the sentence it's fine to use a
sentence okay for language for language
modeling you could model in the reverse
order or you could model in the forward
order but you can't really do both I
mean the reason why is because you need
to predict these variables in some sort
of sequence you could also theoretically
predict the word in the middle first and
then predict outward from there or
something like that but you have to have
a sequence where you predict one word
first then the next word next and you
can't use information about words that
you haven't predicted yet so it is
important that you have some sort of
ordering of the variable
um so you can use it on the input you
can use it on the input side so if
you're translating from Chinese to
English you could use it on the Chinese
side and you always do or not always but
often do but on the English side you
need to generate words in some order
right so again you can only use a unit
or you could think of so one one example
where you could use it is you could use
it for restoring so if you have a whole
bunch of hypotheses that you want to
score for some reason you could do that
but it wouldn't be a probability model
it'd just be like a scoring yeah um yes
they would they would have different
properties theoretically it makes no
difference so theoretically if you
decomposed the probability in this order
or if you decomposed the probability in
the opposite order it's still the joint
equal to the joint probability but
because you have modeling errors because
you know our models are not perfect you
will have different characteristics
based on the order you go in and there
was actually a an interesting paper at a
mental P just a week ago where basically
they used a fancy strategy for
generating for generating output for
neural empty systems where they combined
the two models together and they got
significantly better results when you
combine one that goes from left to right
and right to left because they have kind
of different biases for example so I
think there's evidence that the biases
that there definitely is a difference in
the things you capture going from left
to right to right to left but that's
only a function of modeling years and
interestingly generating from right to
left was my
or so generating from left to right I
don't I don't know why but it's good
that you know left to right seems to
make more sense to us as humans and you
got better accuracy as well sometimes
that's not the case with neural networks
and something that makes no sense
actually tends to work pretty well until
you figure it out
okay cool so um we have um I'd like to
try it out I'll just talk a little bit
about how we do this in dinette and I
think this is similar to some toolkits
it's different to some other toolkits
but basically in dinette we have a
builder a thing called a builder which
can be like an RNN builder and lsdm
builder and what we do is we specify the
number of layers the size of the input
the size of the hidden layer and in the
model where we store the parameters then
we can add parameters to the computation
graph and get the hidden state per
sentence by calling this initial state
function and then we update the state in
access it to make predictions for input
word or character or whatever so yeah
this is parameter initialization you can
just look at the code but then this is
sentence initialization so the most
important thing here is that the word
embeddings are our word embeddings for
each word here then we might start the
sentence by adding the word embedding
for the end of sentence symbol and then
basically what we can do is we can we
can walk through the sentence every time
we get the we do the output function to
get the did the output of the recurrent
neural network then we can calculate the
we could calculate the loss for the next
word append this loss and then add the
next word like this so basically this is
this is how we can create a language
model it's a for a for loop where each
time we make our prediction when we add
the input for the last prediction we did
then we can
all our losses together so this is an
implementation of the basically the
graph that I showed earlier so here we
have something that's actually a little
bit different from that I just realized
now that the order of our examples and
slides was was somewhat out of order
which is my fault but I think max will
talk about how to do this for a
different desk which is so close yeah
hang on a second they will pull that up
so we are
Graham yeah that - it's in there I
don't know how to be with Mack okay how
do you how do you go up and down no I'm
a hook that make it ladder Oh make it
larger make the screen larger is this
and then make the font larger there's a
weird shortcut that isn't working right
now what's hit command + oh there we go
okay sorry I was using the vim okay so
this is a code I think for this code be
tuned I have to have much to say because
they're central part of this code is
just how can we construct there are n so
this this ah here so okay their name of
the variable is confusing here you only
use our enemy to not use s TM so let me
change this to our n so here is we just
use their simple RN builder and there
[Music]
this is their input dimension this is
the dimension of the hidden state and
this is model and we use by directional
so we have the forward Ireland and their
backward are and he this are the
parameters for the softmax
the year and here is how could we can
calculate their scores so basically this
is only the transduce yeah so we just
get the first caster in initial state of
their iron and we use transduced by
putting putting the word embeddings at
input and we just get our output of this
iron and because we able to use just
want to use the last fitness test folder
further classification so which way
so we just gets their last last state of
the forward our iron and their last
state of the pack we are and then we
concatenate them together as their final
vectors being used to folder for the
classification so that here is the
training part which is the same as the
greatest class so I think that was was
simple or are there any questions about
that okay
it's simple but it's it's you know a
pretty reasonable baseline if you want
to if you want to do some sort of
classification so I'll move on to the
next one so RN ends have some problems
and specifically in the in the sentiment
classification task that I was talking
about before or that we just showed
before they suffer from the problem of
vanishing gradients so basically the
idea is that every time we run through a
RN n step we are going to be having a
the gradient decrease so if we have some
sort of loss function at the end in this
case I'm talking about square to error
but we could also have something else
every time we take a step back the
gradient gets a little smaller or the
gradient changes a little bit and
there's a couple reasons why this
happens one is because if we're using a
non-linearity like the tan H the 10 H
the basically the the tan H looks
something like this and the gradient
looks something like this so anytime
we're not we get an input that's not
very close to zero we get our gradient
decrease or actually four yeah so every
time we get an input that's not close to
zero the gradient decreases and if we do
this over many many times steps
we basically lose all our learning
signal by the time we get far back so in
this case we used two bi-directional RNN
in our training so the forward RNN will
remember words from the end of the
sentence the backward RNN will remember
words from the beginning of the sentence
but the words in the middle of the
sentence might be lost lost due to this
vanishing gradient so a solution to this
is long short term memory LS TM this is
something that a lot of people use in
the basic idea of this is that we want
an additive connection between time
steps so we want a connection between
time steps that doesn't change the
gradient at all and addition is an
operation that doesn't modify the
gradient so you know D of X plus y with
respect to X is say that's not a good
deal
this shows why you should put things on
your slide before you start doing them
so you don't come up with mistakes what
should it be D of F X yes idea of D of F
X plus y is equal to B
what's up f of X plus G of X yeah right
so then the basically the derivative of
this will will be unchanged or will not
get smaller based on the differentiation
here anyway so I'll try to clarify that
a little bit better next time but so if
we take a look at what the if we take a
look at what this looks like here the
which I can probably probably use to
make that explanation a bit better
um the we have our XT so XT is our input
HT minus 1 is our hidden state of the
previous time and CP minus 1 is
something called the cell state so HT
minus 1 is what we normally have in our
in our recurrent neural network so it's
like what we normally have in our
recurrent neural network in the sea is
kind of something special for LST ends
in the idea is that within every LST I'm
update we have this function and the
most important thing is kind of the sea
across the top is its adding in
information but it's not it's not
multiplying by anything it's not taking
any non-linearity so this C of t minus 1
will the gradient with respect to C of T
will be constant or it will not change
due to this due to this operation here
um so that's the reason why that's good
is because now our gradient will not be
disappearing as we pass it along
multiple time steps so this C is
basically what the what the hell what
the core of the LST M then the H here is
is also used to do things like modify
modulate gates this I
how much we update see according to
something else with new information etc
so we have a bunch of gates one is the
update gate which is what value do we
want to try to add to the memory cell I
the input gate is how much about they do
we want to allow to go through and
update the memory cell so if the input
gate is mostly zero then we won't we
won't be updating that memory cell at
all and then the output o is how much of
the memory cell do we reflect in the
next state so if the output gate is zero
basically the hidden the hidden state
will be will be zero next time so there
you know I can't go through all of the
details here but the most important
thing here is that we have this additive
connection between the cells which
allows us to avoid the energy gradient
problem
um and then there's other alternatives
so oh I'm sorry this this reference is
wrong what I wanted to reference was a
paper called LS TM the search a search
space odyssey' so lsdm a search space
odyssey' is this paper where they
basically tried twenty to thirty
different variants of the LST m and they
found that the original Alice TM was
actually really good so that you can use
the original Alice key I'm without
without being worried too much another
variant they came up with there is one
where you basically set the set
something called the forget gate which
actually wasn't in my previous slide but
you set that to the input gate minus 1
or 1 minus input gate there's also
something called gated recurrent units
these are kind of like a lighter-weight
variant of the LST M that everybody uses
that a lot of people use they tend to be
they tend to have fewer parameters in
Bellis TM and tend to be a little bit
worse but not a whole lot worse in
general for some tasks they're about the
same for some tasks they're a little bit
worse but and they all kind of follow
the basic paradigm of taking input
updating the state etc
so I have some I have some code examples
here I don't actually know if the
sentiment lsdm is worth doing because
you literally change two lines to change
the simple RNA into that and I actually
I actually already kind of showed you
the LM code so maybe we can just skip
the explanation of these ones and move
on but you can take a look you can take
a look online so um there's a few things
that we would like to talk about
efficiency and memory tricks so um one
of the things I talked about at the very
beginning is that mini batching is very
very important
mini batching is a way to make your
models train quickly um it was easy to
do in feed-forward networks because in
feed-forward networks we're always doing
the same computation and none of the
computations over time steps rely on
each other it actually becomes harder in
RNN significantly harder in RN ends and
there's a reason for this and the reason
why is because each word depends on the
previous word um and that sequences are
of various lengths so here's an example
we have these two sequences and what we
would like to do is we would like to
basically mini-batch them together so
the way we do this is by grouping
together all the words at each of the
positions in the sentence and
calculating them at the same time so the
way we do this is we basically calculate
the we add padding to the end of the
sentence the second sentence because
it's a shorter sentence so we add the
end of sentence symbol one more time
then we do whatever loss calculation we
want to do we do a for loop through the
entire sentence to calculate the
language model and now after we did
padding all of the all of the sentences
will be the same length so we can just
run a for loop over them um then we have
a thing called masking so what we do in
masking is basically all of the padded
values we multiply them by 1 or 0
depending on whether it's a real a real
or a padded word um and then after we do
this masking will basically have losses
for all of the non patent on masked ones
in no loss for the masked one and then
we take the sum of all of these together
so this this is a bit more difficult but
it's really really important if you want
to make models like language models or
or translation models fast enough that
you can actually train them in real
reasonable time so this is this is
something that is that is important to
remember as I mentioned at the beginning
dinette has automatic mini batching so
one way to do this is to not worry about
this and just run multiple sentences at
one time and then turn on this flag but
our experiments have shown that that's a
little bit slower than doing it manually
yourself so if you want to get the best
speed increases its it's probably worth
being able to do this um when you're
doing mini batching um one of the
problems is you don't want to do too
much padding um sorry that that says
padding and sorting but it should be
padding and masking I apologize a
miswrote there and this results in
decreased performance speed wise so if
you are padding sentences a whole lot
you're going to be doing lots of wasted
computation on these petted things which
is not useful so to remedy this one
things we one thing we often do is we
sort sentences before we start training
so sentences of similar length get to be
in the same batch and then this is this
speeds up training quite a bit so this
is we have an example this one is
probably worth looking at so I will
again pass this over to yes
okay so this is the code for to show how
could be to their mini Beijing internet
so manually not internet manually so
here is the same we just read the data
and the only difference is yeah it's
hopefully calculates their lost one last
score you know you know patching me so
here is how to be to patching help me to
they're peddling so first we goes
through so remember that slur for the
sentence of the inputs that all the
sentences are in decreasing other with
respect to their lands so their sentence
zero is the longest one so we so about
for this for this mini-batch the lens of
their mini batch is the length of the
first sentence so we just goes through
the lens of the first sentence and to
see if for instance we see if they are
shorter than their first sentence if
they are shorter than we just peddling
their end of sentence label to the end
of the sentence and for mask if it is
the real word night least one if it is
the fake word if it is or bellowing
words then it is zero
now I hoped we calculate their loss here
so basically we just goes through every
time step so since its but since we have
to process multiple sentences in there
in in at the same time so we need to use
the refine transfer bitches there and
you know general general operation after
escape but basically their basic
operation of their last camp step and
so the only trick is here so because
there are sentence is in decreasing
order so we only need to check if their
life sentence needs to do the mask so if
the last sentence mask is is not there
it's not one it means that we need to do
the mask if the last one is still in
there
valid valid words then with nothing to
the mask so it can save some some time
then yeah that's only thing I'll here so
here we need to use the lookup I think
bad special version of the lookup so
than you to do a copy you need to use
the batch version of the tenet the net
operation so yeah just just to summarize
you can see it's a little bit more
complicated another thing that we didn't
that we didn't exactly cover is that
here we have some boilerplate code to
split things into batches so you need to
split things into batches beforehand and
you need to step over and consider the
mini batch size when you're doing your
recording and stuff like that but um you
can take a look at this in detail if if
you're interested so so this is the
reason why the longest sentences first
is I mentioned before that we're doing
sorting so if you see here for the
training data and the testing data we do
sorting in decreasing order of length in
that way sentences that are about the
same length will be in the same place in
the list so they'll be in similar places
in the mini batch yeah okay so that is
the that is the mini batch in parts and
I will move back to the slides
okay so okay one other thing is about
handling long sequences so if we have
extremely well let's say we have an
extremely long sequence where we want to
model oh sorry good it can have an
effect um so one thing I should mention
is after you made the mini batches you
always shuffle the order of the mini
batches that you that you process so
because of that in each mini batch
things will all be the same length and
that does have an effect that can have
an effect of of making it move very far
in the direction of very short sentences
in one single mini batch update or move
very far in the direction of long
sentences in one mini batch update but
other than that outside of the mini
batch your shuffling so you can reduce
that effects hopefully not it's because
your again because you're shuffling the
mini batches that you know that
shouldn't have a huge effect although it
does have some effects but it does make
your training a lot faster okay cool so
I will I will skip to or I'll go to the
next part so sometimes you want the
handle really long sequences with
recurrent neural networks and this is
great right recurrent neural networks
can remember things forever so if you
wanted to handle a sequence of ten
thousand words theoretically you would
be able to remember something that
happened ten thousand words ago passed
it all the way on and and use it in your
next prediction of something so you
could do that for like
let's say you wanted to do a generation
of a novel like you wanted to create a
language model for a novel it might be
useful to do that
um but or words in full documents for
example however um the problem is that
this might not fit in memory it it will
often not fit in GPU memory it might not
fit in CPU memory either so there's
something called truncated back
propagation through time and this is a
way to basically handle long sequences
without actually overflowing your memory
and the idea is relatively simple
basically what we do is we calculate a
whole first sentence like this we do
back profit on the loss function for the
first sentence but then we basically
remember this last state we maybe save
it on save it on the CPU or something
like that then we clear all our GPU
memory and and delete everything and
then we do we do our second sentence
like this with only the state so the the
thing here is that we can't we don't do
back prop across the sentences but we
can still use information from the
previous sentences to you know change
our predictions of the next sentence um
you might want to do truncated back
propagation through time over two
sentences or another way that people
often do it is you do it for 40 words
regardless of sentence boundaries so you
just take 40 word blocks and then step
through your entire corpus and do it so
this is one way to you know basically
say we don't we want to do something
across sentence boundaries but we can't
hold the entire training corpus in our
memory
um in order to do the gradients it's
maybe technically possible but it's
difficult because what you need to do is
you need to basically throw out your
your computation graph so you can use
that memory so once you've thrown out
the computation graph you basically have
to recalculate it in order to do that
propagation through it so so that's the
thing I was talking about that's a
little bit more complicated there's
other interesting things you can do like
if you if you really want to try hard or
you're implementing a neural network
library that you really want to be able
to do this automatically there's things
like moving some of the intermediate
nodes from GPU memory to CPU memory or
from GPU memory to disk and saving them
that sounds like a lot of work to me
those I think this is some more common a
common solution that p-please okay so
this is something this is something
interesting that has a couple
interesting results recently and is
important when you want to use RN ends
for tasks that they're not particularly
good at so RN ends particularly deep RN
ends or LSD M's are quite powerful and
flexible up until about last year I
would say they were by far the most
powerful and flexible architecture that
we could use recently people have been
getting very good results with
convolutional networks and stuff so it's
not so clear anymore but still I think
you know a lot of the kind of
cutting-edge results are coming from our
own ends but the difficulty is that
these require a lot of data to train
them properly and they also have trouble
with weak air signals that are passed
back from the end of the sentence like I
said so like sentence classification for
example it's not often RNs will do worse
than CNN it's not because they don't
have the power to express the sentence
but just because they're different more
difficult to train and that's true even
if you have LCM so
um so there's lots of ways you could
solve this you could also put attention
on top of an RNN convolution on top of
the RNA and that might that might be a
better solution than what I'm about to
talk about but now let me let me
introduce this here and I think this is
interesting in itself um and also this
doesn't add parameters to your model it
doesn't add complex um okay so the idea
here is basically training RN ends with
weak air signals is difficult so what we
want to do is we want to train them in
advance with a non weak air signal that
RNs are very good at learning from and
yeah so you trained for one task and
solve another in the pre training task
is big data and easy to learn the main
task is small data and harder to learn
and we can think of lots and lots of
situations where this is the case one
very kind of stereotypical example of
this is language modeling and then a
sentence classifier so um language model
is have lots of data they have so much
data that we can't use all of it because
the data we can use to train a language
model is basically the entire internet
in that language that it's also an
easy-to-learn objective because you're
predicting the next word and predicting
the next word means the gradients only
have to flow back one before you one
step before you do an update um
sentence classification you have few
data and it's a hard to learn objective
because you have to pass all the way
back through the sentence so the idea is
very simple we train a big language
model first and then we then we do
sentence classification and the results
here showed that this resulted in much
better classifications which were
competitive or better than CNN based
methods so the idea is learn to predict
language and then then you set the quest
for something so the this title of why
pre-training is
it's maybe not entirely accurate so why
does why does pre-training work on a
kind of fine-grained level so this is a
nice paper on visualizing RN ends it
might be difficult to see on the slides
here but you can probably you can
probably look in the references or on
the slide set or online but basically
this is a visualization of the hidden
state of an LS TM after it was learned
to predict the next character in either
English or our source code so we have
one who West's language model or one
source code language model and the
basically blue is so then if we look at
the cell states for each character we
can see that the the one on the top left
this is a single lsdm cell we can see
that it tends to decrease as we as we
step through the sentence so this is
interesting we have one cell that is
basically learning to figure out when
we're approaching that in its sentence
um we have another example from English
this is a cell that turns on inside
quotes so the moment you see a quote
basically the cell turns red turns on it
steps through the entire sentence and
then when it sees another quote it stops
it turns off so this is interesting
maybe it's detecting things like you
know what people tend to say so if we
have a novel if we have a novel what's
an example of something that would
appear within a quote yes
what's it yeah bad speech that's that's
one example I can think of a very simple
example
the word I would probably appear in a
quote but the word I would not appear in
a in a third-person narrative narrated
novels so there's lots of kind of things
that you could think about like this
there is for the source code one there's
one that turns me on inside if
statements then there are also one thing
I like about this paper is it didn't
just take the nice examples it also took
a bunch of other examples that don't
really have any intuitive explanation at
all so you can see that a lot of these
cells you know they don't they don't
really mean anything that we can
interpret but they're probably
expressing something it's just you we
can't really tell what there are lots of
other examples of this of how these are
how these are useful so the paper on the
left is you know this is a paper where
they took it's not a it's not a language
model it's a translation model but they
also test language models where they
train this model to do something like
language modeling or translation
modeling that had nothing to do with
parsing for example and then they used
it they froze the parameters of the
model then they use this to predict part
of speech tags or the aspect or the
tense of the sentence and they were
actually able to do it with pretty high
accuracy they were able to do it with
much higher accuracy when it was trained
as a translation model but even when it
was a language model they were still
able to use so that's kind of
interesting your training it is a
language model but it's learning other
things as well
the last one the last one is also
interesting this is training a language
model and then using it for sentiment
analysis so they trained a language
model on lots and lots of Amazon reviews
and then they then they used this to
predict the sentiment of the sentiment
of the
or descendants so there's also other
examples of stuff like this but
basically pre-training pre-training v6
is interesting okay so I this is
actually a little bit early but I'll
finish up here I I'm happy to take any
questions I'm also happy to talk about
other things not sure so there's no soft
max engine hours yeah are you talking
about the Sigma function well normally
we don't adjust the temperature of the
sigmoid function I think usually we just
use we just use one
but are you talking about these like I
you know donor
so 1 minus G Plus G that's the gating
function and there's no temperature
right this this is this is the gating
function that is based on like the
predicted so then that's not a parameter
that's that's a thing that's predicted
by oh so um the the vanishing gradient
problem is solved because this self
state is additive and additive functions
do not have any an H in them to reduce
the gradient when do that we're close to
zero they don't have any multiplication
and if multiplication by a matrix will
either explode or reduce based on
whether the values you know are
increasing or decreasing so that's the
main idea basically this is the C is
more or less constant minus and additive
yes basically so actually all of the
visualization so I showed you our battle
SEM cell state um
the C value and the C value is the one
that's really interesting and learns
interesting stuff the H value there's a
bunch of other things going on there so
it's not nearly as consistent as to see
but if you look at the if you visualize
the C values in that awesome you can
actually get very nice kind of
interpreting um so one one way you can
do it is just read a subset of the data
in and do whatever you would do on the
whole data on that subset so I think a
lot of a lot of like neural machine
translation implementations I know will
read in 10000 sentences and then shuffle
those and then they'll read in another
10,000 said you might want to shuffle
your whole corpus beforehand using
bischof command on unix in the shuffle
command on unix shuffles on disk so i
think anything that can generate a
sentence according to a probability is a
language model by by my definition so a
language model is something that
calculates the probability of the
sentence X there might be language
models that it'd be very difficult to
generate from so then I guess there are
other ways to generate sentences from
probability models so one example was
the the MLP paper I talked about we
might talk about it later in class but
if you want to look it up it's called
decoding is continuous optimization for
for neural machine translation and the
idea there is
that instead of decoding from
left-to-right or right-to-left they they
decode in continuous space and tried to
generate the whole sentence at once but
I think 99.99% of the time you're not
going to do that because it's way harder
and way slower and decoding
left-to-right where it's pretty well
especially in combination with something
like beam so there are um there are
language models like that like there's a
model called recurrent neural network
grammars which is a grammar that
generates a tree and the and the
sentence simultaneously that also is
left-to-right though it's just
left-to-right generating a tree
structure at the same time so you might
be able to do something more tricky if
you it depends where you get your ear
signal um so when you say work well it
depends on what you're trying to do
maybe so if you're trying to do document
classification with an RNN over a
sequence of 400 that's because it's hard
for it to pass the gradient back and
find the best the best place it has to
do you know 400 times steps back through
time and even LST ends once you get that
far they stop working it's what was if
you have another application like
language modeling it should be able to
should be able to work relatively well
but it might not catch the really long
distance dependencies yeah you can call
it the gradient finishing problem you
can also call it a problem there's
another term called credit assignment
which is which which word was
responsible for the decision and if you
have 400 words it's really hard to
decide which one was the one that
actually made the difference right and
it's harder in these more complicated
things I'd have to pass
sometimes yeah okay um if there's
nothing else it's a little bit early but
all and now and if there's any other
questions